Hello, Jas,

Thank you for kindly answering my email. It is really important for me to have connection with someone in AU IT market, we (me and my wife) are waiting for reply for 3 months (today is the final day!) and it was worse than 9 months of going through all these beurocratic procedures. In succesful scenario I will start looking for job in the end of February. From my experience banks announce bonuses end of Feb and people migrate between them :), so there are more vacations March and later (let me know if it is different in AU).

I will write you as soon as I start looking for new job, again, in February. I still havent decided where to go, Sydney or Melbourne. Just think Sydney give me more chances to find a job and afraid that weather is not sunny and warm there (going to do some research regarding wheather statistics in both cities). I am ready to settle in Melbourne, I heard about more rich and fun society there, you are saying it is less busy, but afraid not to be able to get top possible salary, cause I want to have kids in Australia and settle down and all of that.

I will be greateful if you can forward this email to your colleauge Adam Higgs (havent found him in cc), I understand this is a bit early, but probably he could answer some of my questions.

Hello, Adam, 

I am going to start looking for job in Australia (Melbourne and Sydney) as developer in February and will be happy if you can answer some questions. 

1. How big is the market, I mean how big is competition for positions in the bank or any other big solid company which provides good package? I understand that I like work in big firms as hired gun better than to be a pursuer of new ideas in start-up. My best places of work were in Deutsche Bank and Mosckow Exchange and I am looking for something that comfortable. I found you approximation of senior developer salary as 90K-110K to be very good for a start. At least I changed my internal expectations to this exact fork. What do you think in Melbourne is it easy to find interesting project and good team in development with that salary or it is more a good luck?

2. Development environment. Most of the time I ve been working with Java, since version 1.0 was published by Sun. Thats my best shot as a developer. But I liked Scala, worked for one year start-up in Scala from scratch (my personal scratch in Scala) and it was quite succesful and happy experience. I was developing Python project in production for several months. I am ok with Closure, Javascript and frontend development (as a starter senior), any language, I am sure I will be able to catch a ride in any development environment. The question is - simply go for Java or look for some really interesting projects, having money as big part of main goal. What is the proportion of easy-to-get moneyful jobs in banks and some innovation interesting projects that could get you some good amount of money? Is it worth to try to catch specific position or its much easier to get a job as standard Java server side developer in some solid organisation?

That are of course not the all of the quesyions I have, if you are ok to go on on this topics, let me know. Frankly speaking its not just to get better work, I am really happy to talk to someone from Australia's IT industry, from Russia it looks kind of shadowed and I am really like to know it better. Nice to discuss this with someone who have experince in that area.

Thank you, Jas and Adam for reading my email, hope I did not went too far with that email. Waiting for your reply.

Kirill